“Wow, this is my new favorite National Park!” – Elena

With crayon colored lakes, beautiful hikes, majestic mountains, huckleberry flavored foods, and bears galore, this is a must-visit national park for any outdoors enthusiast.

We originally planned to go to Glacier National Park in September, 2018.  But due to fires in the area, we had to reschedule this for July 4th weekend, 2019.  Like many national parks, July 4th (United States’ Independence Day) is a very popular and busy time to visit.  This is especially true for a national park that is so far north and has a very short “tourist” season of only a few summer months.  To beat the crowds, we had to wake up early, get creative with our camping spots, and determine our itinerary ahead of time.

To start the journey, we packed up our backpacking backpacks on July 2nd and then flew into Spokane, WA after work on July 3rd.  While we considered flying into a closer airport, the flight into and out of Spokane were pretty ideal times and it also allowed us to use our Southwest Companion Pass to fly cheaper.  The flight went smoothly and we started driving around 11 pm in our compact Hertz rental car.  We got about an hour into the drive until we arrived at our dispersed camping spot for the night.  Setting up the tent and falling asleep to beautiful stars overhead is always one of my highlights of being in nature.  The next morning, we were blessed with great temperatures, crisp mountain air, and the amazing smell of pine trees.  The several hour drive across western Washington, northern Idaho and eastern Montana was nothing short of beautiful.  It is exactly what one expects to see in the northern Rockies: landscape for miles, wide-mouthed rivers, big skies overhead, high speed limits, and lots of cattle. ☺

By the time we arrived at the entry gate to Glacier National Park in the early afternoon on July 4th, we had already gotten a good taste of Montana’s beauty.  Entering the park was a whole new level of crystal clear lakes, stunning peaks, and great weather.  We didn’t venture into the park too far because we wanted to meet up with our friend who graciously offered to host us in her guest room.  She lived in Whitefish (the nearest town to West Glacier). So, we explored Lake MacDonald area, did a short hike, and drove back to Whitefish to celebrate America’s Independence Day with our good friend in one of the most America-loving towns I’ve ever experienced.

Getting to meet up with our friend was a special treat.  Knowing that she had a spare bedroom for us at her house in Whitefish was an equally as special treat.  We got to her place and pre-gamed with her and a few of her friends, getting ready to have a night out on the town and seeing a great fireworks show once it got dark.  Whitefish has a small but incredible downtown scene.  Many bars, restaurants, and food trucks will suit just about anyone’s palate.  We stopped at a food truck that had amazing pulled pork over a bowl of noodles and many different sauces to choose from.  It was so delicious, that we actually got another bowl later that weekend.  After food and a spectacular fireworks show, we headed back to the house to sleep and prepare for a full day driving the “Going to the Sun” road through the heart of Glacier National Park.

The morning on the 5th was the first time we really saw how crowded Glacier National Park can get.  The lesson we learned the hard way is that it is highly recommended to start your adventures in this park (whether driving, hiking or backpacking) as early in the morning as possible.  In the summer months, Montana has a lot of daylight compared to other parts of the United States because it is so far north.  So, if you can wake up early, you’ll still have plenty of daylight and will miss all the traffic through the park.  The biggest constraint is making sure you find a parking spot as those can certainly fill up fast for popular trailheads.  

We hiked a short but sweet 5.7 mile out and back trail to Avalanche Lake.  This has to be one of the most popular trails in the park due to its easy access and relatively short drive from West Glacier.  Regardless of the many hikers on the trail, the views once you get to the lake are absolutely stunning!  It is a must-stop location on any Glacier trip.  We decided to drive all the way through the park on the Going-to-the-Sun road which is about 2 hours one way.  Once we were there, we decided to go up to Many Glacier and try out a hike there in the evening before it got dark.  We ended up hiking another easy 5.3 mile hike to Grinnel Glacier viewpoint that evening.  We knew that we wanted to hike to Cracker Lake the next morning, so we didn’t want to leave Many Glacier that evening.  We ended up meeting some great people who had extra space in their campsite and offered to let us stay with them.  We got lucky, but were relieved to be able to settle in for the night.

The next morning, we hiked Cracker Lake which both Elena and I would say was definitely the highlight of the park for us.  At 12 miles out and back, this was a tougher hike than anything we did the day before.  What made it especially difficult is that the majority of the first few miles was all trecked out from horses tearing up the trail.  So, you had to be very careful with your steps along the slippery trail.  We ended up meeting a trail companion and did the whole hike with him.  We got lots of pictures together and shared our life stories with one another.  One thing that travel teaches me is that there are always new and interesting characters to meet along the way.

After returning from Cracker Lake, we decided to make the long drive back to our friend’s house in Whitefish – after stopping by Two Medicine and several other notable locations in the park.  The next day, our friend in Whitefish joined us as we sent it up to Pollbridge for our final day of hiking in the park.  We found an amazing trail at a trailhead where there were only three cars.  Finally, we found a gem that wasn’t overrun by tourists!  While the trail required a lot of bushwhacking, it absolutely rewarded us at the end.  We found an amazing lake, and all three of us swam out to the middle of it to cool off, refresh our skin, and float in awe of the stunning mountains all around us in the middle of nowhere Montana.  Gosh, nature is so great and energizing sometimes.  

Anyways, that’s all the time I’ve got right now.  Let us know if you plan on doing a trip to Glacier anytime soon!


As much as I am not a fan of the typical Californian who only ever leaves the state to vacation in Hawaii, I must say that I absolutely fell in love with the little island of Kauai and all of its charm, simplicity and beauty.

Kauai is incredible.  With landscapes, beaches, canyons, poke, free camping, waterfalls, and great locals, it’s hard to resist the urge to move here.  To get from one side of the island to the other only takes you around 45 minutes, and you’ll only see Hawaii license plates the entire time.  But despite being small, this island packs a punch.  We were lucky enough to have some friends who used to live on this island and could tell us all of the great local secrets.  One of those secrets is that some of the biggest celebrating that happens on the island takes place on Memorial Day weekend which happened to be the first weekend we arrived.  Locals would display huge banners with their children’s or student’s names on them, congratulating them on graduating high school.  The locals all seemed to pitch huge camps and shade structures in the local beach parks (where we happened to camp every night for free) and were celebrating all weekend with good friends, good family (ohana), free concerts, live bands, luau’s, and of course the sound of waves crashing against the shores.

These beach parks must have been some of the best cheap/free camping I have ever experienced.  They all had freshwater showers, bathrooms, clear views of the stars, and easy access to the ocean.  You could literally see all the stars in the sky and hear the waves crashing as you went to sleep.  Some people pay $500/night for sleeping this close to the ocean, and we stayed here for free at several different locations around the island for 5 nights in a row!  Amazing!

Eating like the locals was a great way to enjoy fresh fish every day.  Elena and I don’t eat fish too often in our diet back in California.  But as they say, “when in Rome, do as the Romans do.”  We ate poke (basically small cube pieces of cut up tuna) of various seasonings and styles throughout our trip.  While I may have gained a few inches around the waistline, it is hard to resist fresh catches of the morning that are prepared and seasoned the same day.

After our 5th night of sleeping on the beach, it was time to fly to the Big Island of Hawaii.  Our trip to the Big Island entailed quite a lot more driving as the island is over twice the size of Kauai.  And our itinerary took us to all of this island’s corners.  Immediately after landing on the Big Island, we drove up Mauna Kea which is the highest point in the state of Hawaii at 13,803 feet (4,207 m).  In fact, measured from its base on the ocean floor, its elevation is 33,000 feet making it greater than the elevation of Mount Everest above sea level.  Going from the airport at Kona which is at sea level up to almost 14,000 feet in a matter of a few hours will certainly make anyone a little woozy.  But it happened to coincide with a beautiful sunset above the clouds which made it all worth it.

The next day, we went to Volcanos National Park in the southern end of the Big Island.  Unfortunately, there is no flowing lava or lava lakes that we could see when we were there due to the lava travelling the year before and destroying some nearby neighborhoods and flowing into the ocean, creating new landmass for the Big Island.  While the park was fun, it would probably be more fun on a future adventure if we did more research to time it so that we’re there when lava is actually present in the national park.

The last significant highlight for me on the Big Island was getting to snorkel with Manta Rays late at night.  We did this on our last night in Hawaii and it was absolutely incredible!  Basically, you are given snorkel gear and are told to hang on to a floating device that has light spewing down into the water to attract plankton.  From there all it takes is a little luck to “manifest the Manta Fest.”  If you’re lucky, the Manta Rays are then hungry enough to swim by you and gobble up all the plankton they can before retreating back to the murky waters.  While this may seem scary, I can assure you it is completely safe and incredibly fun to watch such powerful creatures glide through the water with such ease.  If only we could glide through life as easy as the Manta Rays glide through water.

Hawaii was one of the last major domestic trips we wanted to do in the United States before leaving for our year of travel and we’re so excited that we got such a great experience exploring these tropical paradises of Kauai and Hawaii.

##### Money Saving Tips Used This Trip:
* Stay with a friend if you’re lucky enough to have one in the area.
* Find free/dispersed camping outside the park.
* Utilize the Southwest Companion Pass to get half price flights.
* Use National Parks Pass for free entry into the park.
* See free fireworks show over Whitefish Lake on July 4th.
* In Many Glacier – get Beers/Drinks from Heidi’s Snack Shop & Espresso Stand instead of the expensive bar upstairs.
* Instead of buying a beer for $10, you can buy a whole 6-pack for $10.

